### Author: Andrea Caleo, andrea.caleo.pgk@gmail.com
### Date: 04/2016

This folder contains files for experimental ARIMA - GARCH trading strategies on financial indices, stocks, and in the forex market. Daily close data for the S&P500, shares values, and exchange rates are collected using the R module quantmod. A backtracking method is used to estimate ARIMA-GARCH models and forecast the next-day movement. The original code and its documentation are from M. Halls-Moore's blog article: https://www.quantstart.com/articles/ARIMA-GARCH-Trading-Strategy-on-the-SP500-Stock-Market-Index-Using-R, to whom credit is due. These are exploratory tests conducted making changes to the code, and I do not recommend relying on them being effective trading strategies.

The present folder contains R scripts and results from modelling the S&P close values. The file names are read as follows. The file ArimaGarch_WL250p5q5.R presents the R script which constructs the trading strategy based on ARMA models for the S&P growth with autoregressive p between 0 and 5, moving-average q between 0 and 5, GARCH model GARCH(1,1), and window length WL based on the previous 250 days. Experimentations not reported here suggest that a WL = 250 (half of that by M. Halls-Moore) provides satisfying results, slightly better than WL = 500. I find this reasonable: the processes that determine how the series is autocorrelated probably change at most every few months (often much faster!), while WL = 500 days would be a time span of about 2 years. I have not performed extensive experimentations on the value of WL because larger values of WL significantly slow down the script execution. forecasts_WL250p5q5.csv and ReturnsWL250p5q5.png show the forecasts for the next day movement and the results for this strategy. As noted by M. Halls-Moore, the results of the strategy are very good during the financial crisis, in which there was presumably strong volatility correlation, but do not outperform Buy & Hold in more recent years.

The script ArimaGarch_WL250p5q5BIC.R works similarly to ArimaGarch_WL250p5q5.R but selects the best model using the more strict BIC rather than the AIC criterion. I have a preference for smaller models. The result is largely inconclusive - the two strategies perform similarly.

The scripts ArimaGarch_WL250p4q2.R and the others explore the effect of ARMA models with fewer terms (for example p4q2 means that p is between 0 and 4, q is between 0 and 2). The results are also partially inconclusive - the strategies perform broadly similarly, with the case p = 4, q = 2 producing slightly better returns than p = q = 5, p = q = 2, and p = q = 1. 

The "forex" folder contains the results of applying the ARMA-GARCH strategy to the GBP/EUR, EUR/GBP, and EUR/USD exchange markets. The results are surprisingly good. The strategy appears to provide good returns for any currency combination and over any period of time, with the exception of the EUR/USD case between 2013 and 2015. It must be noted that this result is opposite to what is found by others: see the blog article on robotwealth.com, http://robotwealth.com/fitting-time-series-models-to-the-forex-market-are-arimagarch-predictions-profitable/. I have used my code to reproduce the results on that blog using their data and found very poor results with a WL = 250. I do not have a explanation for this discrepancy. The problem may arise from the fact that their data are not exactly regular - they skip weekends (as, on the other hand, the FX market generally does), while the quantmod data include values of the exchange rate at weekends. 

The "stocks" folder contains the results of applying the strategy to stocks of Amazon (AMZN) and Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF). We see that the strategy performs poorly for AMZN, underperforming Buy & Hold except during the financial crisis. It also performs very poorly for ANF before 2008; it performs well during the crisis and is then quite poor after that.


